# MODEL5950552398: 

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL5950552398.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL5950552398.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is described and analysed in a series of three articles:  
**Model of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate metabolism in the human erythrocyte based on detailed enzyme kinetic equations: in vivo kinetic characterization of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate synthase/phosphatase using 13C and 31P NMR.**   
Mulquiney PJ, Bubb WA and Kuchel PW ; _The Biochemical journal_
1999,342(3),pp:567-80; PMID:
[10477268](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10477268) ;  
**Model of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate metabolism in the human erythrocyte based on detailed enzyme kinetic equations: equations and parameter refinement.**   
Mulquiney PJ and Kuchel PW ; _The Biochemical journal_ 1999,342(3),pp:581-96;
PMID: [10477269](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10477269) ; **Model of
2,3-bisphosphoglycerate metabolism in the human erythrocyte based on detailed
enzyme kinetic equations: computer simulation and metabolic control
analysis.**  
Mulquiney PJ and Kuchel PW ; _The Biochemical journal_ 1999,342(3),pp:597-604;
PMID: [10477270](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10477270) ;  
**Abstract:**   
This is the third of three papers [see also Mulquiney, Bubb and Kuchel (1999)
Biochem. J. 342, 565-578; Mulquiney and Kuchel (1999) Biochem. J. 342,
579-594] for which the general goal was to explain the regulation and control
of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG) metabolism in human erythrocytes. 2,3-BPG
is a major modulator of haemoglobin oxygen affinity and hence is vital in
blood oxygen transport. A detailed mathematical model of erythrocyte
metabolism was presented in the first two papers. The model was refined
through an iterative loop of experiment and simulation and it was used to
predict outcomes that are consistent with the metabolic behaviour of the
erythrocyte under a wide variety of experimental and physiological conditions.
For the present paper, the model was examined using computer simulation and
Metabolic Control Analysis. The analysis yielded several new insights into the
regulation and control of 2,3-BPG metabolism. Specifically it was found that:
(1) the feedback inhibition of hexokinase and phosphofructokinase by 2, 3-BPG
are equally as important as the product inhibition of 2,3-BPG synthase in
controlling the normal in vivo steady-state concentration of 2,3-BPG; (2) H(+)
and oxygen are effective regulators of 2,3-BPG concentration and that
increases in 2,3-BPG concentrations are achieved with only small changes in
glycolytic rate; (3) these two effectors exert most of their influence through
hexokinase and phosphofructokinase; (4) flux through the 2,3-BPG shunt changes
in absolute terms in response to different energy demands placed on the cell.
This response of the 2,3-BPG shunt contributes an [ATP]-stabilizing effect. A
'cost' of this is that 2, 3-BPG concentrations are very sensitive to the
energy demand of the cell and; (5) the flux through the 2,3-BPG shunt does not
change in response to different non-glycolytic demands for NADH.

This version of the model originates from [JWS
online](http://www.jjj.bio.vu.nl/database/mulquiney/) .

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


